Connector / Cable Info for the Connex:
<brian.leeper@gmail.com>

Breakout to base:

The breakout-to-base cable is a 6 conductor, 26AWG or 28AWG modular telephone cable with offset latch (MMJ) connectors on each end
Wired straight thru. OE cable has white wire closest to offset latch. OE cable is 28AWG. Max distance per Natus is 50 feet (presumably with
28AWG) ; 75 feet has been tested (by me) and works, with 26AWG cable.

offset latch connector is Stewart 940-SP-3066-OST or equivalent. Also known as a 6P DEC connector.

Crimp tool needed is often called a 6P DEC modular crimp tool. Usually these tools will crimp regular 4, 6 and 8 pin modular plugs as well.

Cable is Assmann WSW Components AT-K-26-6-B/100 (black, 26AWG, 100 feet) or AT-K-26-6-S/100 (white, 26AWG, 100 feet) or equivalent.

Using a 6-conductor telephone cord and cutting the RJ12 connectors off each end and crimping the offset latch connectors is a possibility. However, in recent years
the quality of some of these cables has really declined, with the use of CCA (copper clad aluminum) and "tinsel" wire, both designed to reduce the amount of copper
used. In one case I measured the resistance of the conductors in a 25 foot telephone cord distributed by a reputable brand of electrical supplies as 8 ohms for a 25 foot length.
A 25-foot length of 28 awg wire should have a resistance of 1.62 ohms. Upon further inspection, the wire had very little copper in it, it was mostly filler. Therefore, 
it would be a good idea to check the resistance of any cable used to construct a breakout-to-base cable.

Photic stim connector:

A 6-pin mini-din connector, exactly like that used for the PS/2 keyboard and mouse.

Patient event switch:

LEMO FGG.00.302.CLAD or MilspecWest PSG.00.302.CLAD -- the two numbers after CLAD designate the cable diameter that particular version
can accept. 35 = 3.5mm

I use the MilspecWest PSG.00.302.CLAD35 connector with the Tensility International Corp 30-00699 (28 awg, 2 conductor, white) cable and it works
quite well. I add some adhesive-lined 3/8" diameter 4:1 heatshrink placed such that it covers the back end of the connector and the cable to give it a 
bit more strain-relief.

I install a 1/4" female "headphone" type socket on the other end so it can be with a standard normally-open (red button) nurse call button. 

The terminal opposite the red dot on the connector is connected to the chassis ground of the base unit. The event switch is normally open and 
pulls the TTL level signal line low when pushed, by grounding it.

DC inputs on the base unit:

These accept regular 3.5mm 1/8 plugs of the sort once used to connect headphones to Walkmans, but in the 2-terminal (mono) variety (the mono version was once used to
connect earphones to AM transistor radios). The sleeve is grounded. The signal goes to the tip of the plug.

Touchproof inputs on the breakout:

These have a 1.5mm diameter male pin. It is very difficult to find "official" touchproof plugs, and they are expensive for what they are (stamped socket contacts).

There is another solution. 1.6mm socket contacts (aka size 16 contacts) are widely available, and machined versions (which are more reliable and durable than stamped contacts) are available for around $1-$2 each. The 0.1mm difference does not seem to matter, and Grass (Natus) uses 1.6mm socket contacts on some of their "handcrafted" EEG leads. The specific 
part that Grass (Natus) uses is M39029/5-116, and if you remove the heat shrink, you will see that the colored bands on the socket contact they use match up with this 
part number exactly. This socket contact is gold-plated. Nickel-plated versions are also available. All the part numbers provided here are for the gold plated versions.

M39029/5-116 is the military version of this particular socket contact. As this is a military part number, multiple manufacturers make equivalent parts under this number.

Commercial versions of this socket contact include Amphenol Sine Systems Corp AT62-201-1631, Phoenix Contact 1519751, TE Connectivity Deutsch Connectors 0462-201-1631

An 8-indent crimp tool is used to crimp these. Search for Deutsch size 16 closed barrel crimp tool will turn up many options. 

As these contacts are designed for wire no smaller than 20AWG, if you want to use them with smaller wire like 26AWG or 28AWG, you can use a piece of 20AWG stranded wire as a
shim in conjunction with your smaller wire when you crimp them. Cut the larger wire flush with the terminal after crimping. You can also solder these; Grass does. I have no
experience with soldering them, I prefer to crimp them as that is what they are designed for.

After crimping, you can use heat shrink tubing to insulate and protect the contact. 

As far as durability--I have used the AT62-201-1631 contact for over 100 connect/disconnect cycles and it is still as tight as it was when new. 

As size 16 machined contacts are widely used, there are other variations of them. For this usage, except in rare cases, it matters not what kind of connector they are designed to fit in.
If you happen to find a good deal on size 16 machined socket contacts, you might want to give them a try and see how well they work. Do they grip the 1.5mm pin with sufficient tension?
Watch out for that rare case, though. Some of these socket contacts are designed for connectors where the end of the male terminal and the beginning of the crimp area on the female contact is an inch or more. And that is about how far they will stick out of the touchproof jack. 

There are also size 16 stamped socket contacts. I do not recommend their use for this purpose.

Masimo pulse-ox connector:

This is an MDR14 socket.

 To use the most common Masimo pulse-ox sensors which have a male db9 plug (LNCS = low noise cabled sensor), the Masimo cable needed is the 1814 cable. This cable
has a white MDR-14 plug. The cable with the red MDR plug has a different number and is an MDR20 and will not work (though it possibly may if you replace the MDR20 with 
an MDR14; I will be testing to see if this will work).

There are at least three other connectors used for Masimo pulse-ox sensors: LNOP also known as "F-tab", M-LNCS, and RD-SET. I have tested the LNOP to MDR14 and the RD-SET 
to MDR14 cables. These work with the Connex/Brain Monitor. I have not tested the M-LNCS to MDR14 cable, though there is no reason to expect that it would not work.
There are adapters to connect the various sensor plugs (LNCS, LNOP, M-LNCS, RD-SET) to the various cable sockets. I have tested an LNOP to RED-SET adapter cable and it 
works fine. (Todo: add part numbers for these cables when I find them, take pictures of these various connectors and put them in a pdf document)

There are aftermarket compatible cables, however: The Connex/Brain Monitor, starting around 2016, uses Masimo boards that have firmware that block the use of non-Masimo
cables. This firmware looks for the presence of a 1wire EEPROM in the cable and if it is not seen, the cable will appear to be defective. This 1wire EEPROM is in addition
to the one in the pulse-ox sensor itself (which contains the calibration data), and is connected to the same wires. 

At least one aftermarket compatible cable appears to contain a 1wire EEPROM that works on some Masimo boards, but a later firmware revision appears to have blacklisted
this cable.

Older firmware versions do not block the use of non-Masimo cables. Therefore, with these, you could make your own cable using an MDR14 plug and a db9f socket. (todo: put
pinout table for db9f to mdr14 here).

So, if a non-Masimo cable appears to be defective, it may just be that the cable is being blocked by the firmware. There is no indication that this is what is happening.

It is possible to swap the Masimo board from one Connex/Brain Monitor base unit to another. No configuration changes are needed. Do it with the power off, of course.

I am unaware of a method to view the firmware version on the Masimo board, or upgrade/downgrade the firmware without additional hardware. I think that there is a cable
that connects the MDR14 socket to a serial port that is used for this in conjunction with Masimo firmware tools.

(Todo: add details of how to convert a GE patient monitor Masimo cable to work with the Connex/Brain monitor by changing the GE plug for an MDR14)

Note: I have purchased nearly all of the Masimo sensors and cables I tested used from Ebay sellers. These have a very low failure rate from what I have seen.

