<brian.leeper@gmail.com>

9-16-2026

To use Connnex-LSL without Neuroworks, it should be possible to use the Python script I used for testing acquisition. I tentatively plan to call this Connex-Control. I am 
going to verify that it works this way, then I will add it to this repository.

As of now, it is only capable of commanding the Connex base to send the calibration values for each channel,
and to start acquisition in either 256HZ or 512Hz sampling. It also sends the keepalive messages every few 
seconds, without which the Connex base will stop sending the acquisition data.

However, this should be enough to work with the Connex-LSL bridge.

It does not currently support:

1: Impedance test

2: Calibration signal mode

3: Photic stimulation control

Support for these things is planned. Of these, the impedance test is the most complex, as Connex-Control has to measure the impedance test signal and translate that 
into an impedance value.

If you have a Connex/Brain Monitor base, breakout, and no Neuroworks, here is what you can do to get it working with Connex-Control if you don't know what the 
IP address of the base is:

1)Add an ethernet interface to your host PC with the IP address 192.168.2.1, netmask 255.255.255.0 -- usb, pcie,
it does not matter, even a virtual interface on a VLAN with an access port configured to match should work.

2)Power on the base unit, connect to your new ethernet interface added in step 1 above. Make sure that the 
link light is on. (You do not need a crossover cable if your new interface is gigabit. The interface on the base unit is 10/100).

3)Now you're going to reset the base unit IP address to the default 192.168.2.2.
Press and hold the reset button until the link light turns off. If the link light does not turn off after 
several seconds, release the reset button and verify that the link light turns off. If the link light does not
turn off, it probably did not reset. Try again.

4)The link light will turn back on. You should be able to ping the base unit at 192.168.2.2 within a couple of minutes.
